Hello everyone. Welcome to the agent assemble challenge. This is a quick start guide to help you get uh started on the competition. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to walk you through the steps that you will need to complete to start building your uh application or your agent. I'm going to go first to app.prompt opinion.ai and I'm going to click on sign up and I'm going to fill in some details in here. After you have filled in the details, click on the create button. And at this point, what you need to do

is select a model. So to get you started, what you can do is you can use Google AI studio. So you can actually click on this link to go to AI studio. Uh you just need a Gmail account to get a studio account and you can go down here, click on get API key and then create a new API key and then create the key uh which will create a new API key for you. And from there you can actually copy this key. I'm going to copy that key and come back in here. Click on load models. And what we recommend for the

connector is to use the Gemini 3.1 flash light. Uh so I will go back in here. Uh this one again. You can choose a different one. I'll just give it a quick name. And then what I can do is add the model. So with that your initial setup and uh is completed and you are ready to start um creating your first agent. So to get started what you can do is you can just click on this configure an agent and turn on this agent which is available by default which is a general chat agent. This is not the agent that you will be

submitting for the competition but you can use that for various testing scenarios. The next thing you would want to do is basically have some patients in your system. So what we give you is you have different options. You can import some synthetic patients uh or you can upload your own fire bundle or the simplest way is that you can actually go in here and we have a couple of patients uh you know loaded. So I can just go in there and individually select a patient uh that will basically import some basic

demographics and other data. And we're building on some more samples that we will be sharing. uh you could also manually add a patient and then one of the things that uh definitely recommend is that after you have added the patient what you want to do is you basically want to go to the patient and upload some documents clinical notes or or something because most of the scenarios that we are working with are around generative AI exploring clinical nodes. So everyone will have a different scenario but uh anything that works for

your use case upload those uh documents or any other data you want to kind of load for that patient. So I'm going to do that here quickly. Once that is done I am basically ready to start creating my application for uh you know for the competition. So what we're going to do is we are going to go through three different scenarios so that you have. So you can basically apply for any one of them or you can submit multiple applications and I'm going to go through each one of them. The first use case basically involves no

code at all. So you can actually build an agent within prompt opinion workspace and uh publish it as what is known as A2A. What we're going to do in this scenario is that we're going to upload some sample policy documents of an organization and we'll show how the agent basically responds based on those policy documents. Again, the idea here is to show you an example of what can be done without any coding within the system and then you can basically build something accordingly uh based on the

different scenarios that you're working on. So what I'll do is I'm going to go back to prompt opinion and I'm going to go to configuration. I'm going to go to these collections and I'm going to create a new collection in here and I'll just call it my org policies. And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and upload some documents to it. Uh these are just some policies that I've created locally that I can upload it in here. So let me do that.

Once I've uploaded these policies, I'm ready to basically build my first agent. So for that, what I can do is I'll go to the agents tab to the build your own agents and I'm going to say that I'm going to configure my first agent in here. So I'm going to click on that agent. So what I'm going to be doing is I'm going to select patient in here because we will be testing this agent in the context of a patient. And I'll give it some name and description. And then

what I will do is I will basically say that this agent is going to use all its grounding from the folder that we created. So that way all its answers will be grounded in those policies only. We do let you override the system prompt for the agents. But if you don't put any system prompt in here, the agents are configured to by default use the content that it has been given to them. Uh we will look at some of the other options in here. But the last option I need to do for this is go to this A2A and enable

this because this is how we will be testing this particular agent responding to another agent's request of you know with with the organization policies. Um so once I do that I also have the choice to enable the fire context. What that means is that if if I want my agent to be able to actually query for the patient data, I can actually select this. Um, we'll talk about how this happens in some of the advanced scenarios when you're writing code when you are building an agent within prompt

opinion. This is all taken care of you. But if you need that, you can just turn it on here. And then the last thing is I need to basically define a skill. So skill in this case is very similar to you know what this agent can do. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to put a quick name and description in here. And once I have done that, I can go ahead and save this. So with that, my first agent is basically configured. Now again, you will basically come up with scenarios that you feel are good uh for

this particular scenarios. But to test this agent, what I can do is I can go back to my launchpad. I'm going to select my patient su here because I'm going to test this as a patient. I'm going to select a patient and then what I want to do is I want to select the general chat not the one that the agent I build because we're going to show how it actually works in an A2A scenario. So I'm going to select that particular agent and the first thing I can do is I can just chat with it something like

summarize this patient. Um so this will basically go and give me summary of the patient. Uh but then to test my agent that I have built, what I can do is I can say I want to consult with that agent and I will give it a prompt something like um so so basically what you'll see is that when I ask that question that particular agent connected to the new agent that we had created uh it was able to read the documents that I have uploaded to it u checked with the patient's conditions and then responded based on that what I

can uh you know what I needed to so again this is the very simple scenario of how you can build contentbased grounded agents uh within the prompt opinion framework uh as one of the options for submitting your to your competition. So I'm going to go back to my drawing. So this was option one where you basically configured this agent within prompt opinion. It can be with you know with basically content with some other system prompts however you want to configure it. And now we are going to go to the second scenario where

we want to build an MCP server. So for the MCP server the way it works is that you will be building a set of tools. Um these could be any tools that use the patient data and then return some you know responses back to the user agent that will be developed. Uh and uh what we will also do is we can basically pass the fire context to it where the MCP server will return receive a token that it can use to get that data. So don't worry if it sounds complicated because what we have done is we have actually

built some default repositories that you can use as a starting point. So for the MCP server you will be using this spoke community MCP and what I have is I've actually downloaded that repository to my local location uh so that I can run it from here and I can show you how you will be using it to test it but then you will be building your own tools in this to submit for your entry and we have what we have done is we have basically built a couple of very basic tools that I'll show you but that will give you

ideas to get started on your own uh tools. Okay. So I already have this tool running on a local host. Uh but obviously to test with your application you'll need to make it available through the internet. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to actually use enro and I'm going to create a port to map it to this particular port. So once I have Enro running and I have copied the port, I can go back to my application and uh what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back to my workspace

hub and I'm going to add the new MCP server that we just added uh here. So what I need to do is just copy the URL. This is my Enro URL and then forward/MCP. I'll give it a name my MCP um streamable HTTP. We don't have any authentication built on it by default. So you can obviously you know customize it and put keys in there. And then the important thing here is that I'm going to check this box. This is the box that will tell that you know hey I need to pass in the token uh using which then

that MCP server can actually make fire calls back to the fire server and you know kind of return some uh data and other things. Uh and again all of this code is available in the repo int net or in typescript. So we have both the samples in that repo that you can see. So I'm just going to go back in here and click uh first of all I'll just make test to make sure and you can see that it is returning these two tools. There are very simple tools that just return a patient age. Uh but it will give you

ideas to get started. And I'm just going to click on save. Now to test the MCP server, what I can do is I can go back to the custom agent that I had created and I'm going to go into the edit there. And what I'm going to say is that I want to actually use a tool in that particular uh sorry I'm going to use a tool uh within that particular agent. And if I click on add, it will give me the tools that are in my system. And then I can select that tool and save it. So once I have this done, I can go back

to the launchpad and again go same way select a patient but this time I'm actually going to select this agent because what I'm trying to demo is the MCP server. So I'm going to select there and then what I'm going to go ahead and just says is like I'm just going to ask a question to uh get the patient age. And what you can see is that it returned me a response. Uh but the way to check that it actually called the tool is that you can actually turn this on and you will see that the

call was made to that particular tool. Uh if I had put a break point in here, I would have seen it. But I could actually go down the path and see that the call was made to this. Uh and that's kind of how it uh you know worked. So again this was scenario number two. So in this case we built an MCP server and we have added that MCP server and made that available so that it can be tested uh from an agent within the prompt opinion workspace. Again this server this repository is to give you something to

start with. Um you can add as many tools as many firewalls uh to kind of get that going. Uh I will also just remind uh here is uh if I didn't before that uh uh when you create the workspace within prompt opinion it is actually a fire server. So you can pretty much make any fire server calls from that MCP server uh which will be kind of being made to your workspace. So the last option again what we have is in here is uh what we are going to do is to build a completely independent A2A agent. So this is where if you have a

scenario where you are building an agent using uh Google ADK or anything but the agent can support A2A uh yourself. Uh then this is the option that you can build and then publish that agent. Again to get you started with that what we have done is we have published two repositories. Uh both of them are based on Google ADK. They were actually wipe coded from Google ADK. One is in Python and one is in Typescript. And uh depending on again your preference you can download each one of them and you can see which one you know helps you and

then based on that you can customize them for the scenarios that you are working on. I have already them downloaded in here and again uh if you will go into the code of that so let me just close off these latest changes. Uh it has all the steps to get started. Uh the main thing I'm going to go in here so the readme file you can actually see how to go get started. But what I have done is I have already kind of running it. So this actually has three built-in agents. Uh we are only going to using

one of them which is on running on port 801. And that's the one that we will use to test it. Now before we test this, there's a couple of things that we need to do. First is obviously we need to kind of put our enrog to this particular server. So let me do that really quickly. Okay. So, I'm going to stop that my current enro server and then I'm going to basically point it towards 8081. I think that's the server which where the where the server is running. Uh or it is actually 8,0001 sorry.

Okay. So, and what then I also need to do is that I need to basically copy this particular URL. And then I need to go in there and copy this URL back into my environment variable. Uh because when the agent card is submitted, it needs to kind of know where the where the agent is running. Uh and it kind of needs to pick it up from there. Once I've done that, I will need to restart the application once if I already have it running. So, let me do that really quickly here. Okay. So the application

is running again and it's basically picked up that port. So now what I can do is I will go back to my application and uh now we are going to actually connect an external agent. So again what I'll do is I will go back to my workspace hub but this time I'm basically connecting an external agent and I'm going to go and say add connection and I'm going to paste the URL u that is basically for that mro URL and then I can click on check. Uh what it will do at this point it is basically

connecting to that particular agent and it's pulling the card of that agent. I can see that I have the skills uh other things that are available from that agent. So I'm going to give it a name to say um my external agent just to kind of get started. And then the thing is that in this case we are actually uh you know it's telling me that this agent requires a key. Uh so we did this on purpose again while testing you can adjust it but because this agent will have your Gemini key or whatever

you're using the model. Um so we have a security kind of sample built in there. But the way it is very simple. If I go into the middleware, I can just copy that key from there and bring it here and just paste it here. Uh the other thing is that this agent will warn you that you know this agent requires fire context. So just like the MCP server, we can actually pass fire context to the agent too and the agent can actually then you know get the fire data directly and make calls. Uh so I'm going to say

yes I do want to do that and then I'm going to just click save there to uh you know add that agent to my workspace. So at this point again the you will be customizing your own agent but I have added that agent and that agent is available within my workspace. So there's one last thing left to test this agent with one of my own agents. So again I'm going to go back to the launchpad and I'm going to just select the same patient we have been selecting. I'm just going to select the general

agent because again we are testing an external agent. This is how the judges will be testing it too. And what I'm going to do is I'm just going to select that external agent in here. And uh just again as an example I will just say ask the and again this is a very very basic um you know command to show you kind of how the communication and the exchange happens. uh obviously based on your own u you know agent scenarios this will be a lot more data but what you're seeing in here is that I I basically asked the

demographics um this our agent made a call to the external agent the external agent pulled that data directly from the fire returned that data and then our agent has summarized this um so this is how you can actually go into this particular agent and customize it and build different A2A scenarios for healthcare and then bring them all together. So this was a very quick overview of what are the three different ways um you can basically submit an agent or an MCP server for your application. Um as once you have done

once you have built your agents or an MCP server and you have tested it uh there will be one additional step that you will have to do and we will be building a detailed video on that too. But what it basically will be is like any of these agents need to be published so that they can be tested by the judges and uh you know for for the different scenarios and the way you will do that is you will just go to this marketplace studio at the bottom and depending on if you're submitting an MCP server uh or an

agent uh you will just go in here and you can basically add the way you added your MCP servers in here and you can publish them from here. Uh this step will be needed before the judging starts. Uh we will be doing a lot of office hours and other discussions before that. So uh for now you can basically start testing your agents and contact us on discord if you have any other issues and uh we'll go from there. Thanks so much for uh listening. Bye.


