Reference number
2474-A
Aetna Medicare Part B Drug Criteria
Herceptin and Trastuzumab Biosimilars
This policy is for Aetna Medicare members. Find the Aetna Commercial Medical Drug Criteria.
For Aetna Medicare members, National Coverage Determinations (NCDs) and Local Coverage Determinations
(LCDs) will be applied to Part B drug requests when applicable. Aetna Medicare Part B Drug Criteria documents will
be used in the absence of an NCD and LCD.
POLICY
Products Referenced by this Document
Drugs that are listed in the following table include both brand and generic and all dosage forms and strengths unless
otherwise stated. Over-the-counter (OTC) products are not included unless otherwise stated.
Brand Name Generic Name
Herceptin trastuzumab
Ogivri trastuzumab-dkst
Kanjinti trastuzumab-anns
Trazimera trastuzumab-qyyp
Herzuma trastuzumab-pkrb
Ontruzant trastuzumab-dttb
Hercessi trastuzumab-strf
Indications
The indications below including FDA-approved indications and compendial uses are considered a covered benefit
provided that all the approval criteria are met and the member has no exclusions to the prescribed therapy.
FDA-Approved Indications1-7
Adjuvant Breast Cancer
Adjuvant treatment of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-overexpressing node positive or node
negative (estrogen receptor [ER]/progesterone receptor [PR] negative or with one high risk feature) breast cancer
• as part of a treatment regimen consisting of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and either paclitaxel or
docetaxel
• as part of a treatment regimen with docetaxel and carboplatin
Y0001_NR_37041_2024_C © 2026 Aetna Inc.
This document contains prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks or registered trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not
affiliated with Aetna Inc.
1

-- 1 of 6 --

Y0001_NR_37041_2024_C © 2026 Aetna Inc.
This document contains prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks or registered trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not
affiliated with Aetna Inc.
2
Reference number
2474-A
• as a single agent following multi-modality anthracycline based therapy
Metastatic Breast Cancer
• In combination with paclitaxel for first-line treatment of HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer
• As a single agent for treatment of HER2-overexpressing breast cancer in patients who have received one
or more chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease
Metastatic Gastric Cancer
In combination with cisplatin and capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil, for the treatment of patients with HER2
overexpressing metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma who have not received prior
treatment for metastatic disease
Compendial Uses8-11
• HER2-positive breast cancer
▪ Neoadjuvant therapy
▪ Treatment of recurrent, advanced, unresectable, or stage IV (M1) disease
▪ Treatment for no response to preoperative systemic therapy
• HER2-negative breast cancer treatment of stage IV (M1) disease
• Intra-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) treatment of leptomeningeal metastases (malignant meningitis) from
HER2-positive breast cancer
• HER2-positive esophageal and esophagogastric junction cancer
• HER2- positive uterine serous carcinoma and carcinosarcoma
• HER2-positive salivary gland tumor
• HER2-amplified/positive and RAS and BRAF wild-type colorectal cancer
• HER2-positive biliary tract cancers
• HER2-positive non-small cell lung cancer
• Prostate cancer
All other indications will be assessed on an individual basis. Submissions for indications other than those listed in this
criteria should be accompanied by supporting evidence from Medicare approved compendia.
Documentation
The following documentation must be available, upon request, for all submissions:
• Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status, where applicable
• RAS mutation status, where applicable
• BRAF mutation status, where applicable
Coverage Criteria

-- 2 of 6 --

Y0001_NR_37041_2024_C © 2026 Aetna Inc.
This document contains prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks or registered trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not
affiliated with Aetna Inc.
3
Reference number
2474-A
Breast Cancer1-9
Authorization of up to 12 months may be granted for neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer as part
of a complete treatment regimen.
Authorization of up to 12 months may be granted for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer.
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer with no response to
preoperative systemic therapy, recurrent, advanced, unresectable, or metastatic (including brain metastases)
disease.
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for intra-CSF treatment of leptomeningeal metastases (malignant
meningitis) from HER2-positive breast cancer.
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer when used in
combination with neratinib and fulvestrant as third-line or later therapy.
Esophageal, Gastric, or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer1-9
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment or palliative therapy of HER2-positive esophageal, gastric,
or esophagogastric junction cancer in combination with chemotherapy.
Uterine Serous Carcinoma or Carcinosarcoma8
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of HER2-positive stage III-IV, metastatic, or recurrent
uterine serous carcinoma or carcinosarcoma in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel and continued as a single
agent for maintenance therapy.
Salivary Gland Tumor8,11
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of recurrent, unresectable, or metastatic HER2-positive
salivary gland tumors when used as a single agent or in combination with docetaxel or pertuzumab.
Colorectal Cancer8,10
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of unresectable, inoperable, advanced, or metastatic
colorectal cancer, including appendiceal adenocarcinoma and anal adenocarcinoma, when all of the following criteria
are met:
• Member has HER2-positive/amplified disease.
• The disease is negative (wild-type) for RAS (KRAS and NRAS) and BRAF mutations.
• The requested medication will be used in combination with tucatinib, pertuzumab, or lapatinib.
• Member has received prior therapy for the disease or is not appropriate for intensive therapy or will
receive hepatic artery infusion.
Biliary Tract Cancers8
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for subsequent treatment of unresectable, resected gross residual (R2),
or metastatic HER2-positive (IHC 3+/ISH +/NGS amplification) biliary tract cancers (including intrahepatic and
extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder cancer) when used in combination with pertuzumab or tucatinib.

-- 3 of 6 --

Y0001_NR_37041_2024_C © 2026 Aetna Inc.
This document contains prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks or registered trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not
affiliated with Aetna Inc.
4
Reference number
2474-A
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer9
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of HER2-positive (IHC 3+, 2+, or 1+) non-small cell lung
cancer.
Prostate Cancer9
Authorization of 12 months may be granted for treatment of prostate cancer.
Continuation of Therapy
All members (including new members) requesting authorization for continuation of therapy must be currently
receiving therapy with the requested medication.
Authorization of 12 months may be granted when all of the following criteria are met:
• The member is currently receiving therapy with the requested medication.
• The requested medication is being used to treat a diagnosis or condition listed in the coverage criteria
section.
• For members requesting reauthorization for adjuvant or neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer, the
maximum treatment duration is 12 months.
• The member is receiving benefit from therapy. Benefit is defined as:
▪ No evidence of unacceptable toxicity while on the current regimen AND
▪ No evidence of disease progression while on the current regimen.
Summary of Evidence
The contents of this policy were created after examining the following resources:
• The prescribing information for Herceptin, Kanjinti, Ogivri, Trazimera, Herzuma, Ontruzant, and Hercessi
• The available compendium
▪ National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium
▪ Micromedex DrugDex
▪ American Hospital Formulary Service- Drug Information (AHFS-DI)
▪ Lexi-Drugs
▪ Clinical Pharmacology
• NCCN Guideline: Breast Cancer
• NCCN Guideline: Biliary Tract Cancers
• NCCN Guideline: Central Nervous System Cancers
• NCCN Guideline: Colon Cancer
• NCCN Guideline: Esophageal and Esophagogastric Junction Cancers
• NCCN Guideline: Gastric Cancer
• NCCN Guideline: Head and Neck Cancers
• NCCN Guideline: Rectal Cancer
• NCCN Guideline: Uterine Neoplasms

-- 4 of 6 --

Y0001_NR_37041_2024_C © 2026 Aetna Inc.
This document contains prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks or registered trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not
affiliated with Aetna Inc.
5
Reference number
2474-A
After reviewing the information in the above resources, the FDA-approved indications listed in the prescribing
information for Herceptin, Kanjinti, Ogivri, Trazimera, Herzuma, Ontruzant, and Hercessi are covered in addition to
the following:
• HER2-positive breast cancer:
▪ Neoadjuvant therapy
▪ Treatment of recurrent, advanced, unresectable, or stage IV (M1) disease
▪ Treatment for no response to preoperative systemic therapy
• HER2-negative breast cancer treatment of stage IV (M1) disease
• Intra-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) treatment of leptomeningeal metastases (malignant meningitis) from
HER2-positive breast cancer
• HER2-positive esophageal and esophagogastric junction cancer
• HER2- positive uterine serous carcinoma and carcinosarcoma
• HER2-positive salivary gland tumor
• HER2-amplified/positive and RAS and BRAF wild-type colorectal cancer
• HER2-positive biliary tract cancers
• HER2-positive non-small cell lung cancer
• Prostate cancer
Explanation of Rationale
Support for FDA-approved indications can be found in the manufacturer’s prescribing information.
Support for all indications other than non-small cell lung cancer and prostate cancer can be found in the NCCN Drugs
and Biologics Compendium. Use of information in the NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium for off-label use of
drugs and biologicals in an anti-cancer chemotherapeutic regimen is supported by the Medicare Benefit Policy
Manual, Chapter 15, section 50.4.5 (Off-Label Use of Drugs and Biologicals in an Anti-Cancer Chemotherapeutic
Regimen).
Support for non-small cell lung cancer and prostate cancer can be found in the Micromedex DrugDex database. Use
of information in the DrugDex database for off-label use of drugs and biologicals in an anti-cancer chemotherapeutic
regimen is supported by the Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 15, section 50.4.5 (Off-Label Use of Drugs and
Biologicals in an Anti-Cancer Chemotherapeutic Regimen).
References
1. Herceptin [package insert]. South San Francisco, CA: Genentech, Inc.; June 2024.
2. Kanjinti [package insert]. Thousand Oaks, CA: Amgen Inc.; June 2025.
3. Ogivri [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: Biocon Biologics Inc.; November 2024.
4. Trazimera [package insert]. Cork, Ireland: Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals; November 2020.
5. Herzuma [package insert]. Incheon, Republic of Korea: Celltrion, Inc.; December 2024.
6. Ontruzant [package insert]. Jersey City, NJ: Organon LLC; February 2025.
7. Hercessi [package insert]. Raleigh, NC: Accord BioPharma Inc.; September 2024.
8. The NCCN Drugs & Biologics Compendium ® © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc.
https://www.nccn.org. Accessed September 5, 2025.

-- 5 of 6 --

Reference number
2474-A
9. Micromedex® (electronic version). Merative, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. Available at:
https://www.micromedexsolutions.com. Accessed September 5, 2025.
10. National Comprehensive Cancer Network. NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology: Anal Carcinoma.
Version 4.2025. Available at: https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/anal.pdf. Accessed
September 5, 2025.
11. National Comprehensive Cancer Network. NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology: Head and Neck
Cancers. Version 5.2025. Available at: https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/head-and
neck.pdf. Accessed September 3, 2025.
DOCUMENT HISTORY
Revised: February 2026
Aetna Medicare Utilization Management Committee (MUMC) Approved: 3/26/2026
Version: 2025
Policy effective date: 5/1/2026
Policy termination date:
See Evidence of Coverage for a complete description of plan benefits, exclusions, limitations and conditions of
coverage. Plan features and availability may vary by service area.
Y0001_NR_37041_2024_C © 2026 Aetna Inc.
This document contains prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks or registered trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not
affiliated with Aetna Inc.
6

-- 6 of 6 --